In this lecture we're going to be talking about four loops and this is an awesome segue from our last
lecture where we were talking about lists and arrays because with four loops they worked beautifully
together you can iterate through each item there.
But first I'm going to show you how we can do for loops where we just iterate through a range of numbers
so in Scotland the way to do this is to just say for with some parentheses and let's say if we want
to run through the numbers one through ten we'd have to represent some sort of variable that we want
to hold value each time we iterate through.
So for example if I made that X I might say X and then one dot dot 10 and that's saying I want to go
from the number one to the number 10 then I do curly brackets and the idea here is basically that each
time we loop through this range that we are going to run the code inside of these curly brackets.
And so initially X would be 1 and 2 and 3 than 4 and if we want to check out this functionality really
as simple as just printing out x so let's go ahead and run that just to kind of prove what's going on
here.
Boom there it is all 10 numbers.
This range doesn't have to start at 1.
We could go from like five to seven or six even if we wanted to.
Right so if we run this it'll just do the numbers 5 and 6 and there's nothing magical about X here I
could call this X man if I wanted to.
It's really up to you about what you want to name things.
So now the question becomes you know how do four loops look work with lists or arrays.
And here's what we do.
So let's say I make a list of my favorite candy songs say far fav candy and this is going to be equal
to a list of.
And I'm going to put some strings in here so Snicker's definitely one of than we've got.
I do like the 100 grand bar and maybe Fun Dip.
Those are like my favorite candy maybe.
So I go ahead and I put these here and now if I want to iterate through all of these with a loop I'm
going to follow a very similar format that I did before where I say something like four with my parentheses.
And just to keep things consistent I'm going to say X and rather than giving a range I'm just going
to give the list here.
Fav candy and then I'm going to do my curly brackets after that.
So now what it will do is it will run through each item and fav candy starting at the beginning going
to then so first X will be equal to Snicker's in hundred grand bargain Fun Dip.
So if we wanted to make sure that this thing worked we'd just go ahead and print out X again.
So let's go ahead and run this.
We should see these three items printed out and look at that Snicker's 100 Grand Bar and fund.
OK.
So you know that's working now.
I will say when you're working through an array like this or a list x is not a great name.
So for example if the array is fav candy will I would probably name this something like candy because
that makes sense it's a list of candy objects.
If I'm talking about one particular candy that's probably a better name for it rather than X..
OK.
So the challenge that I have for you is not one that I proposed to the beginners.
This one's a little bit of a level up.
And in fact it's talking about something that I haven't even covered as far as cotland in math is concerned
so I want you to do the following loop through the numbers one to two hundred and print out all odd
numbers k.
So loop through the numbers 1 to 200 and print out all the odd numbers you're going to have to learn
how to do this on your own.
But I think this will be a good practice to go you know check out how to find the answer to a cotland
problem on the web if you have any issues I'm going to show you how I would google this for myself.
But anyways that is the challenge for you go ahead and hit pause on the video now.
OK so hopefully enjoyed this one a little bit tougher than what we had before.
As far as challenges go the big thing that we want to do here is we want to find what are odd numbers
and print them out in order to do that.
We're going to use something that's called a Modu low but we have to figure out how to do that in Scotland
so I first know that I need to know you know loop through the numbers 1 to 200.
So I'll just start by doing that.
I'll say for X in one dot dot 200 so that I know that I'm looping through all of those.
And then the next thing that I need to do is I need to do some sort of if statement checks to see if
a number is odd or even.
So again I think the Modu Doulos the way to do that.
I've often seen as percentage signs but let's see what it is in Scotland.
So I'm going to open up Safari and I'm just going to search Modu low in Codlin.
Let's see what Google has for me.
We've got operating overload Let's see here I'm not sure that this is what I'm looking for.
Ah there we go so arithmetic operators we do have the Modelo there.
Sounds like it should be pretty straightforward.
So it's what it is it's dividing doing division and then it gives you the remainder afterwards so we'll
say all right if inside of parentheses X Modu Lo 2 is equal to 1 meaning that there is a remainder then
we know that that number is odd.
And so what we will do is we will do a print line or we print out whatever Xs k.
So looks like maybe it's this simple let's go ahead and run it see what we get.
And down here OK these are all looking of us make sure we got the number one.
Yep that even got the number one perfect.
So there is the solution for that and we still got more to go so let's keep drucken.